Now the remaining thing is that we maybe want to adjust our chart and we can adjust it in two different
ways,
we can either make sure that our bars here take the full available height or that we shrink the height
a little bit
and in reality, we might want to do both.
I think that's too much height here
but I also want to make sure that if we have it on a slightly bigger device, we never have an empty white
space at the bottom.
So therefore first of all in the main.dart file, let's maybe give this only 30% and assign 70%
to our transaction list and now let's still make sure that our chart bars are positioned properly
and now to also make sure that our bars are sized dynamically,
let's go to our chart bar and there, I have a fixed height for my text above the bar, that might be fine
but the bar itself, we can probably size that dynamically. To size this chart bar dynamically, we need
to find out which available height we have
and now we're not really interested in the full device height for that.
Of course, we could simply go to the main.dart file,
take our calculation here which calculates how much height we assign to our container and copy that
here into our chart bar to then take a fraction of that available chart height for our chart bar itself,
so for the container between the labels. But that would mean that whenever we adjust this fraction here,
we also have to adjust it here in the chart bar.
So it would be nicer if we could get the information about how much space is available for this chart bar
in general in here because if we take the Dart DevTools which I opened up here which you can open through
Visual Studio Code by using the command panel and then just typing Dart DevTools and you should
find that command where you can hit enter, if you have these opened and you select a widget here with
select widget mode and you click on any bar, you actually see that this is in a column here,
which in the end if you scroll up in that tree, is all in a row and that row already takes the available
height of our chart minus some padding which we assigned.
So the row already has the height but now inside of the chart bar widget, we'd be interested in getting
that height and sizing our bar here appropriately based on that height
and for that, there is another widget we can use in Flutter
and that's the LayoutBuilder widget. The LayoutBuilder widget takes one named argument which you have
to provide and that's the builder argument which gives you two arguments then,
the first is a context,
so that is given to you by Flutter,
you don't call that function, Flutter calls that function for you
and the second is an object with some information about the constraints which are applied to this widget
you're in, so to the chart bar widget and constraints are a feature which Flutter offers which defines
how much space a certain widget may take. Indeed, constraints are an important concept in Flutter. Constraints
define how a widget is rendered on the screen and you set constraints by, for example, assigning a
height or a width or otherwise if you don't set this, all built-in Flutter widgets have their own default
constraints, like for example a ListView has an infinite amount of height,
a column also has that but is not scrollable and so on. Constraints always refer to height and width
and are expressed as a minimum and a maximum height
and width you might have on a given widget and you can set them on your own as I just said or there
are some sensible defaults in Flutter. Now thus far, we implicitly always use these constraints when we
assign different heights or width or when we used expanded to make sure that a widget takes all the
space it can get in a column or in a row.
Now the LayoutBuilder gives us information about the constraints that are applied to this widget we're
in,
so to the chart bar, no matter if we explicitly set these constraints by assigning a size on some parent
widget or if these are the default constraints of the built-in widget we're placing our widget in.
No matter what
it is, constraint is or constraints is actually an object with some information about the constraints
that apply
and in here, in that builder, we should now return the widget tree for our custom widget.
So basically what we had in there before, the column in this case, I return this inside of the builder
function
but now we have the constraints object available and we can use that to dynamically calculate the height
and width, if we need it, of elements inside of that widget based on the constraints,
so of the sizing, that is applied to our custom widget from outside. So here we could take the constraints
on that height here by accessing constraints.maxHeight.
So that's the maximum height
this may take or our entire chart bar may take and maybe give the bar itself 70% of it.
Now as we can see, this is a bit too big here and actually clear that select mode here.
So this is a bit too big because of course here, we also like a fixed height label, then a fixed
height spacing, more fixed height spacing and another text.
So the best solution here might be to assign dynamically calculated heights to all these elements so
that they add up to 1.
So we could say this should maybe be 60% of the available height,
this first text here maybe gets 15%,
then here this height gets only 0.5, so 5%, same down here for this spacing,
gets also 5% and then this text at the bottom,
I'll also wrap this in a container just as I did it for my text up there and also give this a height
of let's say 15%. Now with that, I have 30% for the two texts together, 10% for the
spacing here and the remaining 60% for my appBar container.
Now one last thing I want to do, the text at the bottom here,
I'll also wrap this in a FittedBox now to ensure that, if for some reason, we should be on a very small
device or we should have only very little height available,
the text is automatically resized to still fit into that box. And with that, now we have a chart
that fills that space perfectly, dynamically calculated on the chart size where the chart size,
so the overall box is also dynamically calculated based on the screen height. And therefore now if
you rotate this, this looks ugly.
We will fix that but now we ensure that this is all squeezed onto one screen here as well, which right
now is broken but at least we fixed that problem that we have fixed heights that might or might not
look good.
Now here we're working with relative heights, which as you can see is still not perfect here but which
is a great step forward to make sure that at least on portrait mode, stuff is working correctly and we'll
also of course make sure that it works on landscape mode.